there are places on earth where you can
just look up at the sky
and it takes your breath away an epic
night sky full of stars
and other stuff let's see if we can find
one near where you live
the natural bridges national monument in
utah would be a great place to start
the roon biosphere reserve in germany is
pretty good too
then there's the iriomote ishigaki
national park in japan
and there's always cherry springs state
park in pennsylvania
get this the stars you see when you gaze
up might not be there anymore
that's because some stars are so far
away their light takes years to reach us
take deneb for example deneb's light
took nearly three thousand years to
reach us
so the light we're seeing is actually
three thousand years old
closer to home flying around in space
asteroids
these clunky pieces of rock come in all
shapes and sizes
some aren't even made of rock and some
are the size of dwarf
planets that's huge take ceres
a dwarf planet between mars and jupiter
it hangs out with its other asteroid
buddies in the asteroid belt
think of it like this if planet earth
was the size of a nickel
ceres would be the size of a tiny chia
seed
remember that huge space rock that
supposedly wiped out the dinosaurs all
those years ago
of course not you weren't even there
that was a full out asteroid not just a
meteorite
asteroids usually break up when they hit
earth's atmosphere
splitting up into a bunch of small
meteorites but this big boy
was so dense and massive that it
survived the journey
all in one piece what hit the dinosaurs
was the real thing that asteroid
the one that wiped out those poor
dinosaurs is thought to have been about
eight
miles wide and it did all that damage
after an asteroid enters the earth's
atmosphere it speeds up like crazy
that's why it was so powerful if it had
floated down with the help of a huge
parachute well not much would have
happened and today
we might even have dinosaurs as pets or
worse
they might be our overlords don't worry
most asteroids are pretty well behaved
sitting nicely in that huge ring between
mars and jupiter
just like our dwarf planet buddy ceres
there are more than 200 massive
asteroids in the ring
but asteroids come in all shapes and
sizes and we can't ignore the little
ones
they need love too and there are a lot
of them
they're not even that little around a
million of these baby asteroids are
about half a mile long
and millions more are even smaller
there are cases of asteroids coming
pretty close to earth
and that's definitely something we want
to avoid they might be interesting
and fun to watch but they could cause
serious problems if they crashed into us
so what could we do basically just
observe and report scientists track any
asteroids near
earth and try to predict their journey
through our solar system
the ones that get really close are
called near-earth objects
or neos the largest asteroid to have
approached earth
was estimated to be about four miles
wide
that's about 70 football fields that's
quite a lot of football
about once a year an asteroid the size
of a car
hits the earth's atmosphere our
atmosphere is pretty good at breaking
these guys up
so all you see is a small fireball
streaking across the sky
free fireworks september 2017.
that's the last time a really big
asteroid got close to earth
the next one nasa says it won't be until
around 2057.
how about smaller ones they come along
every couple of years
and they're only about three to six feet
wide
the smallest one ever came in 2008
and it was only about a couple feet long
i mean
you can probably stretch your legs that
long what about the ones that have
actually hit earth
some of them made quite a big impact
leaving a crater where they crash landed
the single largest known impact zone of
an asteroid
is the bradefort crater and it's huge
it's about 180 miles across
that's the distance from new york to
boston
it's in south africa and it's about 2
million years old
so what would happen if an asteroid was
on a collision course with earth
what would we do lasers
if we were to point powerful lasers at
the asteroid for long enough
we might be able to change its course we
could also use a gravity tractor
this theory involves using a spacecraft
to orbit around the asteroid
slowly pulling it off course these are
all pretty sci-fi though
the one method that we'd probably end up
using is to just throw spacecrafts at
the asteroid
hopefully it would either change course
or split up into smaller
less dangerous bits but say one does hit
earth
what would be worse it hitting a city or
hitting the ocean
hitting a city would be pretty
devastating but there would probably be
plenty of time to evacuate
you'd have time to fly or drive to
another city
though it might be hard to find a hotel
room still
buildings and landmarks would be gone no
more parks
streets or houses if an asteroid hit a
city
first off it would feel like a massive
earthquake
people in cities far away would probably
feel the impact
then fires would start breaking out
everywhere
that's because of all the factories gas
stations power lines
flammable stuff everywhere buildings
cars trees
a lot of things would be on fire the
asteroid would also leave its mark
there'd be a huge crater right in the
middle of the city
in the 1700s lisbon in portugal was
struck by an earthquake
and a tsunami just after that no big
surprise
lisbon was totally destroyed it took
ages for them to completely rebuild the
city but after the makeover
the city was better than ever it had
wider streets
more businesses and the city got a brand
new image
after that earthquake lisbon rose up
again and was better than ever
so if an asteroid ever hit a modern city
we could definitely learn from its
example and build a better one
imagine this a futuristic and
eco-friendly city
a city with lots of green spaces bike
lanes wide enough for everyone
skyscrapers that disappear out of sight
roads
so perfect there wouldn't be any traffic
sidewalks that would actually be fun to
walk on
a place for businesses to thrive and
jobs for everyone
a city powered only by renewable energy
and loads of good vibes from its
citizens
we might even have crazy new things we'd
never seen before
how about getting to work or school on a
zip line
or a huge underground mall that goes on
for miles and miles
or how about see-through bridges and
tunnels
that would be awesome maybe i could
finally get everything delivered to me
by drone
or somehow never have to take the trash
out ever again
worst-case scenario it could be turned
into a sanctuary for wildlife
let nature run its course and have wild
animals live there
free and happy in just a few years the
whole place would be green
and full of life animals do pretty well
once all us humans move out
if it hit the ocean though unless it was
near the shore
the damage would be minimal the water
would absorb most of the energy from the
impact
it's like throwing a rock into a pond
sure it causes a few ripples
but even they disappear after a while
the big danger
would be if it triggered a tsunami like
in lisbon
we could also mine the asteroid it might
be full of precious metals
like gold silver platinum or other
metals we've never even seen before
scientists have been trying to find a
way to mine asteroids in space
and bring the metals back home that kind
of project would be ridiculously
expensive though
so not worth it but if an asteroid
decided to knock
on our front door we'd be more than
happy to mine it
for now let's just hope they stay up
there in space